Have you ever been given an assignment
that seemed overwhelming?
Jonah experienced self-doubt and fear
when he was told to warn the Ninevites
of their impending destruction.
But he learned to trust in Jehovah,
and he received the courage
and the wisdom to do the work.
In just 40 days more,
Nineveh will be overthrown!
Jonah never imagined his experience
would be portrayed in a film
meant to encourage millions
of people in our day.
The volunteers who made this movie
had their own Jonahlike challenges.
For example, the storm,
the big fish, and the city of Nineveh
—these elements were unlike anything
that the Audio/Video Services Department
had ever filmed.
Careful planning and full reliance
on Jehovah would be required
to portray these accurately
and within budget.
The cast received specialized training
to learn their lines and portray
the proper emotions for each scene.
The sets were carefully
researched and designed,
with set construction taking place
at various Bethel facilities
as well as in Southern California.
Costumes accurate to the time period
and region were designed,
and makeup was also researched
to convey the appropriate styles of the era.
In early 2017,
filming began at Mount Ebo.
He claims Jehovah sent a fish to swallow him.
Why are you sleeping?
Get up, call out to your god!
Later, production moved
to Southern California
where brothers and sisters
from local congregations
provided meals, tents,
vehicles, housing,
and most other logistical needs.
The outpouring of enthusiastic support
was a clear demonstration
of their love for Jehovah
and his people.
When it was time to create
the boat sequences, production moved
to Louisiana
to make use
of a large water tank located there.
Remote volunteers assisted
with the preparation of the tank
as well as labor and materials
needed to construct the boat.
Additionally, they provided
rescue-diver support and meals for the crew.
A non-Witness consultant
had some interesting observations
on what he saw.
There’s a certain peace about this place.
Prayer in the morning is good.
Yeah, it works.
There are no politics on set.
There’s a mission and a goal set for the day.
It’s well explained.
It’s like a family.
Producers and directors
would be rather jealous
that it’s a well-run, tidy operation.
Production finally ended back
at the Watchtower Educational Center
in Patterson
in a large outdoor set
designed to replicate several streets
and a courtyard of Nineveh.
Once principal shooting was completed,
visual effects needed to be added
to create realistic environments
that would make
the story even more immersive.
Add to that hundreds of hours
spent in the editing rooms,
stitching the pieces together
to create a cohesive story.
But still more work was needed.
I thought you wouldn’t be back.
I’m so sorry, Joanna.
Music had to be composed
and sound effects added.
Jonah! Jonah!
Jonah, look!
I got figs!
King David said at Psalm 40:1-3:
“I earnestly hoped in Jehovah . . .
“He made my footing secure. . . .
Many will look on in awe
and put their trust in Jehovah.”
The volunteers who worked
on the Jonah drama
found David’s words to be true.
Listen to just some of the expressions
of appreciation from viewers.
“Thank you for all of your hard work.
“We laughed and cried
and sat on the edge of our seats,
and the lessons
hit home for each of us.”
“I tried to imagine how to be courageous
and boldly preach like Jonah.
I no longer felt fear.”
Thank you.
Much like Jonah, the cast and crew
involved in the making of this film
were reminded continuously
that no matter
how challenging the assignment,
Jehovah will help us face it.